[MUSIC]
Suppose you just joined a large team to
begin work developing a financial services
application.
Your team has to create features such
as signup flows, user authentication,
overview of account balances,
bill payment, and more.
Your team is using GitHub as a version
control system where everyone
can collaborate and contribute to
the project seamlessly, track changes, and
review each other's work efficiently.
In this video, we will summarize the
process of setting up a GitHub repository.
GitHub is more than just
a place to store code.
It enables collaboration through
the lifecycle of a project,
making sure that everyone's
contributions fit together seamlessly.
Let's review some of the benefits
of using GitHub for collaboration.
Instead of developers working in isolation
and trying to merge their work at the end,
a process prone to conflicts and errors,
GitHub allows developers to continuously
observe and integrate the team's work,
ensuring seamless integration.
It also allows them to share resources
such as common libraries, tools and
code snippets to increase efficiency and
consistency across the project.
GitHub also helps the team follow
clear workflows for coding, reviewing,
testing, and building.
But how exactly do developers
use GitHub for collaboration?
They employ some common
collaborative actions,
starting with creating a repository.
Next, you'll manage branches to keep
different features or fixes organized.
Then you'll submit pull requests
to propose changes, and finally,
you'll conduct code reviews to ensure
everything is working as it should.
Let's examine each of
these in more detail.
To start a new project on GitHub, you need
to create a repository that will store
your project files and version history.
Creating a repository
involves logging into GitHub,
navigating to the repository section,
and selecting the new button.
You will need to provide a name for
your repository, an optional description,
and choose whether it will be public or
private.
For example, you might start a new project
by creating a repository named financial
web app on GitHub, making it public so
others can view and contribute.
Once you create a repository,
development can begin and
you will create and manage branches.
Your team will develop on branches, which
allows you to work on different features
or fixes independently before
merging them into the main codebase.
To create a branch,
navigate to your repository on GitHub and
use the branch drop-down
menu to create a new branch.
Naming conventions often
include the feature or
fix being worked on for
your financial services application.
You might create a branch for the new
feature login flow to ensure the main
branch remains stable and
production ready.
After doing some development work, you
want to add your work to the main branch.
You submit a pull request to propose
the changes you've made in a branch to be
merged into the main codebase.
After committing changes to a branch,
navigate to the pull request tab in your
repository and select new pull request.
You can then compare
changes across branches and
provide a description of
the proposed changes.
For instance, you submit a pull request to
merge your login flow branch into the main
branch, describing the new login
functionality you've implemented.
Finally, it's time to have
a colleague review your work.
You initiate a code review that involves a
team member reviewing changes proposed in
a pull request to ensure code quality and
functionality before merging.
Reviewing a pull request involves
checking the code for errors and for
standards, as well as for
overall functionality.
Reviewers can comment on specific lines,
suggest changes, and
approve the pull request once satisfied.
Your team members review your login flow
pull request while you get a code review
request from another team member working
on the user authentication feature.
You notice that the code lacks error
handling for potential issues like null
inputs or invalid user data, so
you add this as a comment in your review.
This code review helps maintain high code
quality and allows you to share knowledge.
In this video, we summarize the process
of setting up a GitHub repository.
By setting up and
using GitHub repositories,
development teams can effectively
collaborate, manage code changes,
and maintain a high quality codebase.
This enhances productivity and
ensures successful project outcomes.
[MUSIC]